New doc: create custom application container image (#775)
clearlinux/clear-linux-documentation: source/guides/maintenance/custom-app-container.rst

.. _custom-app-container:

Create customized application container images
##############################################

This guide describes how to edit |CL-ATTR| container base images to customize
an application container image.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

Overview
********

> The official |CL-ATTR| container base images are published on Docker\* Hub and

Reviewer: They are 2 different things so separate thoughts. The "official" CL docker image (i.e. https://hub.docker.com/_/clearlinux) is different from these CL-based application container images (i.e. https://hub.docker.com/u/clearlinux).

> The official |CL-ATTR| container base images are published on Docker\* Hub and

Reviewer 2: Agreed. They're separate. What I struggle with as a reader in this paragraph is: Why do I need to know this information (in original)? If you want me, as a reader, to explore these links because they're relevant to the guide, then tell me why. Both links can be included. For example, you could state: "In this guide, we use the "official" CL Docker image for the first examples. Then we use an already `published image on Docker Hub [url]` for the last example.

I'd like to see the Overview tied to the examples in the guide.

are updated on a regular basis. Popular applications that use |CL| are also
published as `Docker images on Docker Hub`_. The source for these Docker images
is available on `GitHub`_\*.

In this guide, the phrase *Clear Linux\* OS container base images* is used to
refer to the official `clearlinux image on Docker Hub`_. This guide describes how
to edit |CL| container base images for the following situations:

*	Customize an application image Dockerfile by adding a bundle
*	Rebuild a published Clear Linux OS Dockerfile with desired version

 	*	Single-stage Clear Linux OS Dockerfiles
	*	Multi-stage Clear Linux OS Dockerfiles

*	Customize an application image at runtime

Prerequisites
*************

*	Set up a functional Docker environment as described in :ref:`docker`.
*	Download the |CL| microservice Dockerfile repo with the following command:

 	.. code-block:: bash

 		git clone https://github.com/clearlinux/dockerfiles.git

Background
**********

> 

Reviewer 2: Take the first sentence of this para ("Most of the images...) and include it in the previous section. 
Then move "Background" section to appear just before `Related topics` toward bottom.  As a guide, it should be easy for users to try an example quickly without having to read the entire background first.

Most of the images in the `clearlinux microservice dockerfile repo`_ are built
utilizing a Docker feature called a `multi-stage build`_:

> #.	clearlinux/os-core is built once a day.

Reviewer 2: Compromise: 
`:command: clearlinux/os-core` is built once per day. It is a container with a minimal Linux userspace.

#.	The target takes clearlinux/os-core as base layer, via
	:command:`FROM clearlinux/os-core:latest` or via
	:command:`FROM clearlinux/<Clear Linux Service>:latest`, in which
	:command:`clearlinux/<Clear Linux Service>` takes clearlinux/os-core as the base layer.

> #.	The specific features are built in the first stage via

Reviewer 2: 👍

> 	:command:`swupd os-install … bundles=httpd…` with all files from its base layer removed.

Reviewer 2: 👍

#.	The target is a composition of its base layer and the specific feature layer,
	via :command:`FROM clearlinux/<base layer>:latest`, such as: os-core, httpd,
	and via :command:`COPY --from=builder /install_root /`.

Using this method, the target container images are kept up to date without
file duplication. For application-centric containers, `os-core-update` is
excluded to improve size optimization.

> Multi-stage Dockerfiles contain more than one :command:`FROM` directive. All

Reviewer 2: Please make the sentence starting "Multi-stage Dockerfiles contain..." the new intro to "Background"-- in new location-- per comments above. It makes a nice intro.

of the multi-stage Clear Linux OS Dockerfiles share a common base layer called
:command:`clearlinux/os-core:latest`. All of the higher level layers inherit
the Clear Linux OS version from this base layer.

> 

Reviewer 2: Fine to include blog post, but please simplify sentence. Something like: 
Check out our blog post `[url]` on how we leveraged multi-stage docker builds to optimize container images.  
@puneetse, please provide url.

Examples
********

This section describes the following examples for customizing an application image
Dockerfile:

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> Add a bundle

Reviewer 2: Revise header as `Example 1: Add a bundle`. 
Then revise all of the following subsections to follow suit (Example 2: Change Clear Linux OS ...).

============

To add new software to a container image, you need to find out which |CL|
bundle includes it, using the :command:`swupd search <feature>` command.
(Refer to `swupd source documentation`_ on GitHub for command details.)

After finding out the right bundle(s), update the Dockerfile to include the
bundle into the published |CL| container. In this example, we chose
to add :command:`wget` to the clearlinux/redis Dockerfile.

> To demonstrate this, a diff of a modified clearlinux/redis Dockerfile is

Reviewer 2: The order of ops is not clear.  Users need a contextual clue: Where does this example start? This just needs a transition statement. There's a gap between Prerequisites (e.g., cloning the microservice Dockerfile repo) and where this example begins. It would be useful to split up the long code-block into at least a couple code-blocks. 
Please transform and simplify these paras into steps `#.` in this section.

provided below to include :command:`wget`.

> .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: diff
```

diff should be an available pygments lexer and would be better

	@@ -15,7 +15,7 @@ RUN source /os-release && \
	     mkdir /install_root \
	     && swupd os-install -V ${VERSION_ID} \
	     --path /install_root --statedir /swupd-state \
	-    --bundles=redis-native,findutils,su-exec --no-boot-update
	+    --bundles=redis-native,findutils,su-exec,wget --no-boot-update

	 # For some Host OS configuration with redirect_dir on,
	 # extra data are saved on the upper layer when the same

	$ docker build --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy -t clearlinux/redis:wget_added redis/

	$ docker run clearlinux/redis:wget_added wget --version
	GNU Wget 1.20.3 built on linux-gnu.

	-cares +digest -gpgme +https +ipv6 -iri +large-file -metalink +nls
	-ntlm +opie -psl +ssl/openssl
	...

Change Clear Linux OS version
==============================

Sometimes during development and debugging, you may need to run experiments
using |CL| containers built from an older version of the OS. This section
describes how to accomplish this using the published Clear Linux OS
Dockerfiles, with different steps for single-stage and multi-stage
Dockerfiles.

Single-stage Clear Linux OS Dockerfiles
---------------------------------------

> 

Reviewer 2: Separate action from description. Create discrete steps for user action. Otherwise, move description to a para or a note.

	$ docker build --no-cache=true --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy -t clearlinux/machine-learning:30550 --build-arg swupd_args="-m 30550 " machine-learning/

Multi-stage Clear Linux OS Dockerfiles
--------------------------------------

As mentioned above, all of the higher level layers of multi-stage |CL|
Dockerfiles inherit the |CL| version from this base layer. So, this requires
us to first rebuild the base layer against the target OS version.

This can be done by simply adding an extra :command:`swupd_args` argument to
the command line. For example, if the desired OS version is 30550, then the
specific command would be:

.. code-block:: bash

	$ docker build --no-cache=true --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy -t clearlinux/os-core:30550 --build-arg swupd_args="-m 30550" os-core/

Next, you must change the target Dockerfile, because the official version is
set to always build off the latest base image (that is, clearlinux/os-core:latest).

To demonstrate this, a diff of a modified clearlinux/redis Dockerfile is
provided below to use the previously built clearlinux/os-core:30550 container
image.

> .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: diff
```

diff should be an available pygments lexer and would be better

	+++ b/redis/Dockerfile
	@@ -7,7 +7,7 @@ RUN swupd update --no-boot-update $swupd_args

	 # Grab os-release info from the minimal base image so
	 # that the new content matches the exact OS version
	-COPY --from=clearlinux/os-core:latest /usr/lib/os-release /
	+COPY --from=clearlinux/os-core:30550 /usr/lib/os-release /

	 # Install additional content in a target directory
	 # using the os version from the minimal base
	@@ -26,7 +26,7 @@ COPY --from=clearlinux/os-core:latest / /os_core_install/
	 RUN cd / && \
	     find os_core_install | sed -e 's/os_core_install/install_root/' | xargs rm -d &> /dev/null || true

	-FROM clearlinux/os-core:latest
	+FROM clearlinux/os-core:30550
	 MAINTAINER qi.zheng@intel.com

	 COPY --from=builder /install_root /

	$ docker build --no-cache=true --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy -t clearlinux/redis:30550 redis/

Some of the |CL| containers use more than one base layer. For
example, the clearlinux/cgit container is built off clearlinux/http:latest
(that is, it contains a :command:`FROM clearlinux/httpd:latest` line in its Dockerfile),
which in turn is built off the clearlinux/os-core container. This means all

> three layers need to be locked down against the desired OS version.

Reviewer: "locked down against" is vague. I'm looking for a better word, maybe "made consistent across all 3 versions"?

Similar to the previous examples, we can lock down both of these containers to
OS version 30550 by making the following changes to the Dockerfile:

> .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: diff
```

diff should be an available pygments lexer and would be better

> .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: This one big codeblock should probably be split into 4 different code blocks. 

1. diff
2. docker build
3. diff again
4. docker build again.

	 # that the new content matches the exact OS version
	-COPY --from=clearlinux/httpd:latest /usr/lib/os-release /
	+COPY --from=clearlinux/httpd:30550 /usr/lib/os-release /

	 # Install additional content in a target directory
	 # using the os version from the minimal base
	@@ -22,11 +22,11 @@ RUN source /os-release && \
	 # file exists on different layers. To minimize docker
	 # image size, remove the overlapped files before copy.
	 RUN mkdir /os_core_install
	-COPY --from=clearlinux/httpd:latest / /os_core_install/
	+COPY --from=clearlinux/httpd:30550 / /os_core_install/
	 RUN cd / && \
	     find os_core_install | sed -e 's/os_core_install/install_root/' | xargs rm -d &> /dev/null || true

	-FROM clearlinux/httpd:latest
	+FROM clearlinux/httpd:30550

	 COPY --from=builder /install_root /
	 COPY cgitrc /etc/cgitrc

	$ docker build --no-cache=true --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy -t clearlinux/cgit:30550 cgit/

Once the target container is built, the installed OS version can be verified
by noting the :command:`VERSION_ID` value in the :file:`/usr/lib/os-release`
file in the container filesystem.

.. code-block:: bash

> 

Reviewer: $ is not needed in the codeblock. Use emphasize-lines syntax to highlight VERSION_ID line.

	$ docker run clearlinux/cgit:30550 cat /usr/lib/os-release
	NAME="Clear Linux OS"
	VERSION=1
	ID=clear-linux-os
	ID_LIKE=clear-linux-os
	VERSION_ID=30550
	PRETTY_NAME="Clear Linux OS"
	ANSI_COLOR="1;35"
	HOME_URL="https://clearlinux.org"
	SUPPORT_URL="https://clearlinux.org"
	BUG_REPORT_URL="mailto:dev@lists.clearlinux.org"
	PRIVACY_POLICY_URL=http://www.intel.com/privacy

Customize an application image at runtime

> =========================================

Reviewer 2: Revise header as `Example 3 ....`

Besides generating a new Docker image by editing the Dockerfile, you can
modify a published |CL| container at runtime. This approach can

> help to accelerate the feature development process. This section describes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be faster to get started. This section describes
```

Reviewer 2: Revise para. 
This section describes how to modify a published |CL| container at runtime.  In this example, we add Tensorflow\* to the `:command:clearlinux/python` container.  This approach can help accelerate the feature development process.

> steps to add Tensorflow\* into the clearlinux/python container at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
steps to add Tensorflow\* into a clearlinux/python container at runtime, as an example.
```

#. Launch the clearlinux/python container.

   .. code-block:: bash

> 	$ docker run -it --rm clearlinux/python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	docker run -it --rm clearlinux/python
```

	Python 3.7.3 (default, Jun 17 2019, 00:47:04)
	[GCC 9.1.1 20190616 gcc-9-branch@272336] on linux
	Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.

#. Try to import Tensorflow inside the container using the command:
   :command:`import tensorflow as tf`. The example below shows the expected
   error message, because the Docker image does not yet include the Tensorflow
   module.

   .. code-block:: bash

	>>> import tensorflow as tf
	Traceback (most recent call last):
	  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
	ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'tensorflow'
	>>>

#. In another console, find the :command:`<Container_ID>` of clearlinux/python launched.

   .. code-block:: bash

> 	$ docker ps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	docker ps
```

	CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                          COMMAND             CREATED              STATUS              PORTS               NAMES
	d4ce9d526fa6        clearlinux/python              "python3"           About a minute ago   Up About a minute                       amazing_villani

#. Connect to the running clearlinux/python container, and use `swupd` to install
   the machine-learning-tensorflow bundle.

   .. code-block:: bash

	$ docker exec -it d4ce9d526fa6 /usr/bin/bash
	root@d4ce9d526fa6/ #
	root@d4ce9d526fa6/ # swupd bundle-add machine-learning-tensorflow
	Loading required manifests...
	Downloading packs (692.32 Mb) for:
	 - machine-learning-tensorflow
	… …
	        ...100%
	Finishing packs extraction...
	No extra files need to be downloaded
	Installing bundle(s) files...
	        ...100%
	Calling post-update helper scripts.
	Successfully installed 1 bundle

#. After the machine-learning-tensorflow bundle is installed in the container,
   in the first console, import Tensorflow, which will be successful now. You
   could also save the updated container using the command :command:`docker commit <Container_ID>`

>    to do further experiments on it later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 2: 👍

   .. code-block:: bash

		>>> import tensorflow as tf
		>>> tf.__version__
		'1.13.1'

> #. In a third console, save the container as clearlinux/python:tensorflow_added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In a third console, save the container with a new tag.
```

Reviewer 2: 👍

.. _custom-app-container:

Modify existing application container images
############################################

This guide describes how to customize |CL-ATTR| application container images.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Overview
********

|CL| publishes custom `Docker images on Docker Hub`_ of popular applications
using |CL| as the base. Most of these images utilize a Docker build feature
called a `multi-stage build to reduce image size`_ while some use
single-stage build Dockerfiles. An official base
`clearlinux image on Docker Hub`_ is also available. To create a generic |CL|
container image, see :ref:`our guide <custom-clear-container>`.

Prerequisites
*************

* Set up a functional Docker environment as described in :ref:`docker`.
* Download the |CL| microservice Dockerfile repo with the following
  command:

  .. code-block:: bash

     git clone https://github.com/clearlinux/dockerfiles.git

Examples
********

Example 1: Add a bundle
=======================

In this example, we add :command:`wget` to the clearlinux/redis
Dockerfile.

> #. Open a Terminal on |CL| and enter the :file:`dockerfiles` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Open a Terminal on |CL| and enter the :file:`redis` directory with :command:`cd dockerfiles/redis`.
```

#. Enter :command:`swupd search wget` to discover which |CL| bundle includes
   the software.

> #. Open a an editor to modify the Dockerfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Open a an editor to modify the Dockerfile with the command :command:`$EDITOR Dockerfile`.
```

Reviewer 2: Done

> #. Append the bundle to the `--bundles` parameter of the `swupd os-install`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Append the *wget* bundle to the `--bundles` parameter of the `swupd os-install`
```

Reviewer 2: Done

   command.

> #. Add :command:`wget` to the swupd command in the Dockerfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

#. Enter :command:`git diff` to show the edits made after
   adding :command:`wget` in the clearlinux/redis Dockerfile.
   The output shows:

   .. code-block:: diff

      diff --git a/redis/Dockerfile b/redis/Dockerfile
      index af977cb..b1effab 100644
      --- a/redis/Dockerfile
      +++ b/redis/Dockerfile
      @@ -15,7 +15,7 @@ RUN source /os-release && \
          mkdir /install_root \
          && swupd os-install -V ${VERSION_ID} \
          --path /install_root --statedir /swupd-state \
       -    --bundles=redis-native,findutils,su-exec --no-boot-update
       +    --bundles=redis-native,findutils,su-exec,wget --no-boot-update

>        # For some Host OS configuration with redirect_dir on,

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: These two lines are technically part of the output but not relevant to the point so they can be removed for conciseness

>        # extra data are saved on the upper layer when the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

#. Build the Dockerfile and apply a unique tag name. In this this example,
   we use :command:`wget_added` and add proxies.

   .. code-block:: bash

      docker build  \
      --no-cache \
      --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy \
      --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy \
      -t clearlinux/redis:wget_added .

#. Run the Dockerfile with the `wget --version` command to verify that
   :command:`wget` has been added to the image.

   .. code-block:: bash

      docker run clearlinux/redis:wget_added wget --version

> .. TODO: @puneetse verify following command

Reviewer: - [x] verified both build and run commands work

#. The output shows:

   .. code-block:: console

      GNU Wget 1.20.3 built on linux-gnu.
      -cares +digest -gpgme +https +ipv6 -iri +large-file -metalink +nls
      -ntlm +opie -psl +ssl/openssl
      ...

Example 2: Change Clear Linux OS version (single-stage Dockerfiles)
===================================================================

This example shows how to rebuild single-stage containers against a specific
OS version by adding a new argument to the Docker build command line.

> #. Rebuild clearlinux/machine-learning with the desired |CL| version by

Reviewer: 1.  `cd dockerfiles/machine-learning-ui`

> #. Rebuild clearlinux/machine-learning with the desired |CL| version by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Rebuild clearlinux/machine-learning-ui with the desired |CL| version by
```

   including the :command:`swupd_args="-m <CL_VERSION>"` argument.

>    In the following example, the desired |CL| version is 30550, and the container is tagged with `30550` as the unique tag name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In the following example, the desired |CL| version is 31090, and the container is tagged with `31090` as the unique tag name.
```

Let's increase this version now due to a format bump which has occurred.

   .. code-block:: bash
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 6

      docker build \

>       --no-cache=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      --no-cache \
```

      --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy \
      --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy \

>       -t clearlinux/machine-learning:30550 \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      -t clearlinux/machine-learning-ui:31090\
```

>       --build-arg swupd_args="-m 30550" machine-learning/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      --build-arg swupd_args="-m 31090" .
```

#. Run command:

   .. code-block:: bash

>       docker run clearlinux/machine-learning:30550 swupd info

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      docker run clearlinux/machine-learning-ui:31090 swupd info
```

Example 3: Change Clear Linux OS version (multi-stage Dockerfiles)
===================================================================

This example shows how to rebuild multi-stage Dockerfiles to use a specific
OS version.

.. note::

>    All higher level layers of multi-stage |CL| Dockerfiles inherit the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   All upper layers of multi-stage |CL| Dockerfiles inherit the
```

   |CL| version from the base layer. You must rebuild the base layers
   against the desired OS version. In this example, 3 base layers must be
   rebuilt.

> 

Reviewer: 1. `cd dockerfiles/`

> #. Rebuild the first base layer by adding an extra :command:`swupd_args`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Rebuild the first base layer, *os-core*, by adding an extra :command:`swupd_args`
```

>    argument to the command line. In the example below, the desired OS version is 30550.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   argument to the command line. In the example below, the desired OS version is 31090.
```

Let's increase this version now due to a format bump which has occurred.

   .. code-block:: bash
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 6

      docker build \

>       --no-cache=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      --no-cache \
```

      --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy \
      --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy \

>       -t clearlinux/os-core:30550 \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      -t clearlinux/os-core:31090\
```

>       --build-arg swupd_args="-m 30550" os-core/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      --build-arg swupd_args="-m 31090" os-core/
```

> #. Change the target Dockerfile to use the desired OS version by changing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Change the target redis/Dockerfile to use the desired OS version by changing
```

   the latest reference to the tag of the previously built version.

>    The example below shows a diff of a modified clearlinux/redis Dockerfile that uses the previously built clearlinux/os-core:30550 container image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The example below shows a diff of a modified clearlinux/redis Dockerfile that uses the previously built clearlinux/os-core:31090 container image.
```

   .. code-block:: diff

      diff --git a/redis/Dockerfile b/redis/Dockerfile
      index af977cb..d666e6e 100644
      --- a/redis/Dockerfile
      +++ b/redis/Dockerfile
       @@ -7,7 +7,7 @@ RUN swupd update --no-boot-update $swupd_args

       # Grab os-release info from the minimal base image so
       # that the new content matches the exact OS version
       -COPY --from=clearlinux/os-core:latest /usr/lib/os-release /

>        +COPY --from=clearlinux/os-core:30550 /usr/lib/os-release /

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       +COPY --from=clearlinux/os-core:31090 /usr/lib/os-release /
```

       # Install additional content in a target directory
       # using the os version from the minimal base
       @@ -26,7 +26,7 @@ COPY --from=clearlinux/os-core:latest / /
       os_core_install/
       RUN cd / && \
           find os_core_install | sed -e 's/os_core_install/install_root/' | xargs rm -d &> /dev/null || true

       -FROM clearlinux/os-core:latest

>        +FROM clearlinux/os-core:30550

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       +FROM clearlinux/os-core:31090
```

>        MAINTAINER qi.zheng@intel.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

       COPY --from=builder /install_root /

#. Build the Dockerfile.

   .. code-block:: bash

      docker build \

>       --no-cache=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      --no-cache \
```

      --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy \
      --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy \

>       -t clearlinux/redis:30550 redis/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      -t clearlinux/redis:31090 redis/
```

#. Run :command:`git diff`.

#. Rebuild other base layers to use the desired OS version. In
   the example below, there are 2 other base layers to be rebuilt.
   The output shows:

   .. code-block:: diff

      diff --git a/httpd/Dockerfile b/httpd/Dockerfile
      index 6b2a6bf..9df89e4 100644
      --- a/httpd/Dockerfile
      +++ b/httpd/Dockerfile
      @@ -7,7 +7,7 @@ RUN swupd update --no-boot-update $swupd_args

      # Grab os-release info from the minimal base image so
      # that the new content matches the exact OS version
      -COPY --from=clearlinux/os-core:latest /usr/lib/os-release /

>       +COPY --from=clearlinux/os-core:30550 /usr/lib/os-release /

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      +COPY --from=clearlinux/os-core:31090 /usr/lib/os-release /
```

      # Install additional content in a target directory
      # using the os version from the minimal base
      @@ -26,7 +26,7 @@ COPY --from=clearlinux/os-core:latest / /
      os_core_install/
      RUN cd / && \
          find os_core_install | sed -e 's/os_core_install/install_root/' | xargs rm -d &> /dev/null || true

      -FROM clearlinux/os-core:latest

>       +FROM clearlinux/os-core:30550

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      +FROM clearlinux/os-core:31090
```

>       MAINTAINER qi.zheng@intel.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

	  COPY --from=builder /install_root /

#. Build Dockerfile.

   .. code-block:: bash

      docker build \
      --no-cache \
      --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy \
      --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy \

>       -t clearlinux/httpd:30550 httpd/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      -t clearlinux/httpd:31090 httpd/
```

#. Repeat :command:`git diff` on another base layer.
   The output shows:

   .. code-block:: diff

      diff --git a/cgit/Dockerfile b/cgit/Dockerfile
      index 9a3796d..59260fe 100644
      --- a/cgit/Dockerfile
      +++ b/cgit/Dockerfile
      @@ -7,7 +7,7 @@ RUN swupd update --no-boot-update $swupd_args

      # Grab os-release info from the minimal base image so
      # that the new content matches the exact OS version
      -COPY --from=clearlinux/httpd:latest /usr/lib/os-release /

>       +COPY --from=clearlinux/httpd:30550 /usr/lib/os-release /

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      +COPY --from=clearlinux/httpd:31090 /usr/lib/os-release /
```

      # Install additional content in a target directory
      # using the os version from the minimal base
      @@ -22,11 +22,11 @@ RUN source /os-release && \
      # file exists on different layers. To minimize docker
      # image size, remove the overlapped files before copy.
      RUN mkdir /os_core_install
      -COPY --from=clearlinux/httpd:latest / /os_core_install/

>       +COPY --from=clearlinux/httpd:30550 / /os_core_install/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      +COPY --from=clearlinux/httpd:31090/ /os_core_install/
```

      RUN cd / && \
          find os_core_install | sed -e 's/os_core_install/install_root/' | xargs rm -d &> /dev/null || true

      -FROM clearlinux/httpd:latest

>       +FROM clearlinux/httpd:30550

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      +FROM clearlinux/httpd:31090
```

      COPY --from=builder /install_root /
      COPY cgitrc /etc/cgitrc

#. Build Dockerfile.

   .. code-block:: bash

      docker build \
      --no-cache \
      --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy \
      --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy \

>       -t clearlinux/cgit:30550 cgit/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      -t clearlinux/cgit:31090 cgit/
```

#. Verify the installed OS version by noting the :command:`VERSION_ID` value
   in the :file:`/usr/lib/os-release` file in the container filesystem.

   .. code-block:: bash
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 6

>       docker run clearlinux/cgit:30550 cat /usr/lib/os-release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      docker run clearlinux/cgit:31090 cat /usr/lib/os-release
```

      NAME="Clear Linux OS"
      VERSION=1
      ID=clear-linux-os
      ID_LIKE=clear-linux-os

>       VERSION_ID=30550

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      VERSION_ID=31090
```

.. _custom-app-container:

> Modify existing application container images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify* existing* application* container* images*
```

You need a star after everything!

#. Launch the clearlinux/python container.

   .. code-block:: bash

      docker run -it --rm clearlinux/python
      Python 3.7.3 (default, Jun 17 2019, 00:47:04)
      [GCC 9.1.1 20190616 gcc-9-branch@272336] on linux
      Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.

#. Try to import Tensorflow inside the container using the command:
   :command:`import tensorflow as tf`. The example below shows the expected
   error message because the Docker image does not yet include the Tensorflow module.

   .. code-block:: bash

      >>> import tensorflow as tf
      Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
      ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'tensorflow'
      >>>

#. In another console, find the :command:`<Container_ID>` of
   clearlinux/python launched. This example Container ID is d4ce9d526fa6.

   .. code-block:: bash

      docker ps

#. The output shows:

   .. code-block:: console

     CONTAINER ID   IMAGE               COMMAND   CREATED             STATUS              PORTS          NAMES
     d4ce9d526fa6   clearlinux/python   python3   About a minute ago  Up About a minute                  amazing_villani

> #. Connect to the running clearlinux/python container, and use

Reviewer 2: @puneetse My instinct here is that there may be a step prior to this that's missing. 
When it states , "Connect to the running clearlinux/python container...." I tried to do so from within the Python repl, but I don't think that's correct. That may be why, when I try to do so, it fails.  When I run the command in Python repl, the error is a: Syntax Error
docker **exec**  -it <container_id> /usr/bin/bash

Error points to **exec** as source. Can you please clarify this concern or explain?

Reviewer: Please see my email response from yesterday. You're right. Step #3 in that section should put you in a separate second console.

Reviewer 2: Clarified. Revision adds new subheaders to clarify when to run new consoles.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Overview
********

|CL| publishes custom `Docker images on Docker Hub`_ of popular applications
using |CL| as the base. Most of these images utilize a Docker build feature
called a `multi-stage build to reduce image size`_ while some use
single-stage build Dockerfiles. An official base
`clearlinux image on Docker Hub`_ is also available. To create a generic |CL|
container image, see :ref:`our guide <custom-clear-container>`.

Prerequisites
*************

* Set up a functional Docker environment as described in :ref:`docker`.
* Download the |CL| microservice Dockerfile repo with the following
  command:

  .. code-block:: bash

     git clone https://github.com/clearlinux/dockerfiles.git

Examples
********

Example 1: Add a bundle
=======================

In this example, we add :command:`wget` to the clearlinux/redis
Dockerfile.

#. Open a Terminal on |CL| and enter the :file:`dockerfiles` directory.

#. Enter the :command:`swupd search` command to find out which |CL|
   bundle includes the desired software. (See `swupd source documentation`_ on GitHub for command details.)

#. Open a an editor to modify the Dockerfile to include the bundle.

> .. TODO: Be specific. Where does user add wget in swupd command?

Reviewer 2: Done

#. Add :command:`wget` to the swupd command in the Dockerfile.

#. Run :command:`git diff`.

#. Next, enter this command to show the edits made after
   adding :command:`wget` in the clearlinux/redis Dockerfile.

   .. code-block:: diff

      diff --git a/redis/Dockerfile b/redis/Dockerfile
      index af977cb..b1effab 100644
      --- a/redis/Dockerfile
      +++ b/redis/Dockerfile
      @@ -15,7 +15,7 @@ RUN source /os-release && \
          mkdir /install_root \
          && swupd os-install -V ${VERSION_ID} \
          --path /install_root --statedir /swupd-state \
       -    --bundles=redis-native,findutils,su-exec --no-boot-update
       +    --bundles=redis-native,findutils,su-exec,wget --no-boot-update

       # For some Host OS configuration with redirect_dir on,
       # extra data are saved on the upper layer when the same

> #. Build the Dockerfile.

Reviewer 2: Done

   .. code-block:: bash

      docker build \
      --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy \
      --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy \
      -t clearlinux/redis:wget_added redis/

#. Run the Dockerfile.

   .. code-block:: bash

      docker run clearlinux/redis:wget_added wget --version

>       GNU Wget 1.20.3 built on linux-gnu.

Reviewer 2: Yes, we reviewed this together and I made change on 09/24.

This example shows how to rebuild single-stage containers against a specific
OS version by adding a new argument to the Docker build command line.

.. TODO: Add context similar to Example 1.

#. Rebuild clearlinux/machine-learning with the desired |CL| version by
   including the :command:`swupd_args="-m <CL_VERSION>"` argument.
   In the following example, the desired |CL| version is 30550.

   .. code-block:: bash
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 6

      docker build \
      --no-cache=true
      --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy \
      --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy \
      -t clearlinux/machine-learning:30550 \
      --build-arg swupd_args="-m 30550" machine-learning/

> 

Reviewer 2: Let's discuss this.

.. note::

   All higher level layers of multi-stage |CL| Dockerfiles inherit the
   |CL| version from the base layer. You must rebuild the base layers
   against the desired OS version. In this example, 3 base layers must be
   rebuilt.

.. TODO: Add context similar to Example 1.

#. Rebuild the first base layer by adding an extra :command:`swupd_args`
   argument to the command line. In the example below, the desired OS version is 30550.

   .. code-block:: bash
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 6

      docker build \
      --no-cache=true
      --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy \
      --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy \
      -t clearlinux/os-core:30550 \
      --build-arg swupd_args="-m 30550" os-core/

> #. Change the target Dockerfile to use the desired OS version. The example

Reviewer: Change the target Dockerfile to use the desired OS version by changing the `latest` reference to the tag of the previously built version.
